# Overview

BAS-PRO plotting is a set of Python scripts to plot model solutions generated by the BAS-PRO model.

# Getting started:

1. Clone this repository by typing ```git clone <repo>``` replacing <repo> with the URL (on Github/Gitlab, go to Clone > Clone with HTTPS and copy the link)

2. This program depends on the [Python spacepy library](https://spacepy.github.io), which contains an interface to the Common Data Format (CDF) library to process .cdf files. Therefore, the CDF library must first be installed. This can be downloaded from the [NASA Space Physics Data Facility](https://cdf.gsfc.nasa.gov/).

Next, install the Python dependencies (including spacepy). Optionally, do this by first creating a new Python virtual environment to work in. All dependencies can be installed by running, from the BAS-PRO plotting directory:
- ```pip install --upgrade pip```
- ```pip install -r requirements.txt``` 

3. Generate a template configuration file for the plotting routines. Either using the Python interpreter (type ```python``` to start), or from a Python script, run:
```
import plot
plot.regenerate_template_config()
```

4. A configuration template will be generated in the ```basproplot_configurations``` directory. Rename it to ```example.json``` and modify the template based on the plotting requirements (see guide below).

5. Plots can now be generated from Python. Continuing from step 3., run the below, replacing paths as appropriate:
```
plot.generate_from_config("full_path_to_solution_dir", "basproplot_configurations/example.json") 
```

# Troubleshooting

Issues linking to the CDF library from spacepy may be addressed by modifying the scripts to set the ```os.environ["CDF_LIB"]``` variable as shown [here](https://spacepy.github.io/pycdf.html)

# This documentation is a work in progress
